# Architecture Policies
Architecture policies work in tandem with the Architecture Principles.  These are technical constraints that solutions are required to be implemented within.

Policy | Rational | Implication
--- | --- | ---
The identity management source for NICS employees is Active Directory which exposes OpenID Connect and SAML-P endpoints via an Identity Service. | Active Directory is currently the identity management solution for employees, including contractors with access to the NICS network.  This should be exposed via its own Identity Identity Service. | <li>Active Directory should continue to be the source of employee identity data. <li>NICS Active Directory should be exposed via an Identity Service that passes calls through to the Identity Provider for NICS employees - Active Directory
The identity management source for employees of other public bodies is a separate Active Directory, which also exposes OpenID Connect and SAML-P endpoints via an Identity Service. | Active Directory is currently the identity management solution for employees of other public bodies, including contractors with access to the NICS network.  This should be exposed via its own Identity Service. | <li>The public body Active Directory should be separated out from NICS employee identity as different identity claims (evidence provided to authenticate identity) are required and less identity information is provided back in the response. <li>The public body Active Directory should be exposed via an Identity Service that passes calls through to the Identity Provider for NICS employees - Active Directory
Citizen identity management is based on OAuth/OpenID Connect. |Modern identity protocols should be leveraged to enable a lightweight and mobile first environment that leverages popular existing identity providers.  Enable integration with existing Government identity providers and public identity providers like Google, and Facebook. | OAuth/OpenID Connect should be used as the most prominent authentication protocol for citizen facing citizens.  Identity providers should be exposed via an Identity Service that passes calls through to the Identity Providers e.g. Google, Facebook.
Citizen and Business information is accessed via a Party Hub. | Multiple, disparate data stores are used to store citizen and business information.  Exposing these through a Party Hub will enable a consistent view of citizens across all government departments. | A Party Hub that comprises of APIs with a common vocabulary and data definitions should be used as the source for all party data needs.  Party Hub will require data consolidation and clean up behind the scenes to rationalise data.
Master Data Management techniques should be followed – unique identifiers, a common vocabulary and data definitions - will be employed for key domain elements to maximise interoperability. | The wide variety of things managed by NICS all relate to one of the key domain elements. E.g. a school, a herd or a monument are all types of an Asset.  An identifier, unique across all elements in that domain, will simplify relationships between the domain elements and allow for reuse of abstract service patterns. | Key domain elements (e.g. Party, Location, Spatial, Asset, Agreement, Case) have a master data identifier.
Every citizen transaction will have a unique identifier. | Identifying every transaction with a citizen (party) will enable better tracking and reporting of service delivery to users. | <li>A unique transaction Id should be generated at the point of citizen interaction – UI or API and passed through all systems involved in that transaction. <li>Transactions should be stored with common data attributes including the transaction Id and party Id (if known).
NI Direct is the primary citizen facing portal for services for citizens. | NI Direct is already established and a well-known location for citizen services and information. | All citizen facing services should be accessible via NI Direct.
OpenDataNI is the portal for OpenData exposed to the general public. | OpenDataNI is already established and a well-known location for making government data open to the public. | All OpenData APIs should be exposed via OpenDataNI.
Drupal is the centralised content management platform. | NICS has significant skills and technology investments in Drupal for managing both public and internal content management sites and the existing service catalogue. | Any solution component requiring content or service catalogue-based functionality should first consider using Drupal.  Functionality should be front-end with custom APIs to reduce the risk of lock-in.
Use REST based APIs for exchanging JSON documents. | REST based APIs exchanging JSON data objects are by far the most common used, supported and understood approach for data exchange.  It is a lightweight approach that is well suited for mobile devices. | All applications should expose APIs leveraging REST and JSON.
Use Events when there are (potentially) many consumers of data, or when the data could be consumed asynchronously.  | Domain events can be used for facilitating communication between bounded contexts and are particularly effective at handling complex or asynchronous interactions.  They enable more responsive and fault tolerate systems.  Event sourcing provides a complete and reliable audit log for free. | <li>Domain events – key events spoken and understood by departments (e.g. Application received, or Application granted) and when they are published by a system should be identified. <li>Each system/microservice should have a well-defined responsibility that should map to a use case. <li> An event broker/service bus should be utilised to enable microservices to communicate together via events. <li>Common event schemas should be developed and used.
Automate repeated tasks. | Automation of processes increases productivity and improves consistency and quality by reducing the chance of human error. A DevSecOps approach applies automation to software engineering activities, particularly around build and test activities. | <li> Common tasks such as machine set up should be automated. <li> CI/CD should be adopted. <li> Tests, whether produced by a developer or a tester, should be automated. <li> Machine setup should be automated. <li> Creation of development and test environments should be automated.
Github is the source code repository for all new code. | Coding in the open is a government recommended approach that encourages clearer documentation, well-structured code that is easier to maintain, clarity around the data that needs to remain protected and suggestions about how the code or security can be improved. | <li> Software solutions comprise of the application, its source code, user documentation and developer documentation.  All are required artefacts.  <li> All new application development code should use the public github as its source code repository, whether coded by NICS developers or third-party developers. <li> Great care must be taken when making source code open and reusable. Developers should refer to the GDS Service Manual section on making source code open and reusable. <li> There are times when it's acceptable for code to be closed source. For example, keys and credentials, algorithms used to detect fraud, and unreleased policy.
Application development will follow the 12 factor application principles. | This will ensure applications will run on the cloud – even if they have been developed and hosted on premise and are subsequently moved to the cloud. | All new application development should follow the 12 factor application principles.
Solution security should adhere to government wide standards. | Information security is critical in the digital age.  Therefore, all citizen facing solutions need to adhere to appropriate government policies relating to IT security. | **GOV.UK** <li>	Security Policy Framework <li>Security by design <br> **NCSC** <li>NCSC guidance <li>NCSC Guidance on Making services hard to compromise <br> **General** <li>OWASP Top 10 Most Critical Web Application Security Risks <li>ISO27001 and ISO27002


 

 





